content/en/About/overview/activity.md, before:

---
title: Activity Report
linkTitle: Activity Report
type: docs
description: >
weight: 4
aliases:
    - /snapshot.html
    - /snapshot
---

## Summary report
<!--
The following activity report is generated by `Grafana` and refreshed on this page every 10 minutes.
It summarizes CPU cluster activity on HPCC's computing resources including Intel, Batch, Highmem and GPU partitions:
-->

<iframe src="https://data.hpcc.ucr.edu/public-dashboards/68d2e4f765fd4bcc825f3e7fb423eb3f" style="text-align:center;width:100%;height:75vh;"></iframe>

<!--
<p style="text-align: center;"><font color="red">Click image to enlarge!</font></p>

<div>
    <a href="https://cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu/activity-report/">
        <img alt="intel_part" border="0" src="https://cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu/activity-report/pane2.png" style="display:block;margin-right:auto;margin-left:auto;text-align:center;">
        <img alt="batch_part" border="0" src="https://cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu/activity-report/pane3.png" style="display:block;margin-right:auto;margin-left:auto;text-align:center;">
        <img alt="highmem_part" border="0" src="https://cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu/activity-report/pane4.png" style="display:block;margin-right:auto;margin-left:auto;text-align:center;">
        <img alt="gpu_part" border="0" src="https://cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu/activity-report/pane5.png" style="display:block;margin-right:auto;margin-left:auto;text-align:center;">
    </a>
</div>
-->

Commit message:

Enhance activity report with resource allocation note
Added note about resource allocation and job queuing factors.

content/en/About/overview/activity.md, after:

---
title: Activity Report
linkTitle: Activity Report
type: docs
description: >
weight: 4
aliases:
    - /snapshot.html
    - /snapshot
---

## Summary report
<!--
The following activity report is generated by `Grafana` and refreshed on this page every 10 minutes.
It summarizes CPU cluster activity on HPCC's computing resources including Intel, Batch, Highmem and GPU partitions:
-->

Do note that just because resources appear to be idle might not mean that they can be immeditally allocated to a job. There are many factors at play, such as priority, requested runtimes, number of resources requested, etc. that contribute to how jobs are queued. If you're concerned about your jobs being queued for extended periods of time, please see the [Queue Policies](https://hpcc.ucr.edu/manuals/hpc_cluster/queue/) page or reach out to support.

<iframe src="https://data.hpcc.ucr.edu/public-dashboards/68d2e4f765fd4bcc825f3e7fb423eb3f" style="text-align:center;width:100%;height:75vh;"></iframe>

<!--
<p style="text-align: center;"><font color="red">Click image to enlarge!</font></p>

<div>
    <a href="https://cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu/activity-report/">
        <img alt="intel_part" border="0" src="https://cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu/activity-report/pane2.png" style="display:block;margin-right:auto;margin-left:auto;text-align:center;">
        <img alt="batch_part" border="0" src="https://cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu/activity-report/pane3.png" style="display:block;margin-right:auto;margin-left:auto;text-align:center;">
        <img alt="highmem_part" border="0" src="https://cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu/activity-report/pane4.png" style="display:block;margin-right:auto;margin-left:auto;text-align:center;">
        <img alt="gpu_part" border="0" src="https://cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu/activity-report/pane5.png" style="display:block;margin-right:auto;margin-left:auto;text-align:center;">
    </a>
</div>
-->
