content/en/Manuals/hpc_cluster/sshkeys/sshkeys_winos.md, before:

---
type: docs
linkTitle:  SSH Keys Microsoft Windows
title: SSH Keys Microsoft Windows
permalink: manuals_linux-cluster_sshkeys_winos.html
aliases:
    - /manuals_linux-cluster_sshkeys_winos.html
    - /manuals_linux-cluster_sshkeys_winos
---

## SSH Keys on MS Windows

### What are SSH keys?

SSH (Secure Shell) keys are an access credential that is used in the SSH protocol.

The private key remains on the system being used to access the HPCC cluster and is used to decrypt information that is exchanged in the transfer between the HPCC cluster and your system.

A public key file is used to encrypt information, and is stored on your own system.
The public key file is stored on the HPCC cluster and contains a list of authorized public keys.

### Why do you need SSH keys?

HPCC supports two authentication methods; `Password+DUO` and `SSH Keys`.
The `Password+DUO` method requires a UCR NetID, if you do not have this then you will need to use `SSH keys` in order to access the HPCC cluster.

### What you need

#### Filezilla

You will need to install `Filezilla` in order to transfer the public SSH key to the HPCC cluster.

1. Download the `Filezilla Client` for Windows [here](https://filezilla-project.org/download.php?show_all=1).
        * Make sure your Windows system is updated to the latest version.
2. Follow the install wizard to complete the install of `Filezilla`.

#### MobaXterm

You will need to install `MobaXterm` in order to generate your `SSH keys` and also to transfer the keys to the cluster.

1. Download `MobaXterm` from [`here`](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/download-home-edition.html).
2. Unzip
3. Double click portable version of exe and run the `MobaXterm` application.

### Create SSH Keys (`MobaXterm`)

1. Begin by clicking on the tools drop down on the upper menu bar
   
   ![mobasshkey1](/img/ssh1moba.png)

2. Find and click on the MobaKeyGen (SSH key generator) option
   
   ![mobasshkey2](/img/ssh2moba.png)

3. A window should appear to create a new SSH key. Click on generate to create a new SSH key pair. Follow the on menu instructions.
   
   ![revisedkeygen](/img/revisedkeygen.png)

4. Once your key has been created, enter a password in the key passphrase field to password protect your key. Click on `conversions` in the tool bar and click on `Export OpenSSH Key`. Save this key as `id_rsa` and put the file in an easy to access location. 
Click on `Save private key` to save the private key with an extension of `.ppk` to use with MobaXterm or FileZilla. Save the key as `mobaxterm_privkey` and put the file in an easy to access location.
   
   ![revisedkeygen2](/img/revisedkeygen2.png)

5. Highlight EVERYTHING in the box labeled "Public key for pasting into OpenSSH authorized_keys file" then right-click on it and choose Copy. Open `Notepad` and paste the copied text. Save the file as `id_rsa.pub` and put the file in an easy to access location.
   
   ![revisedkeygen3](/img/revisedkeygen3.png)


### Keys Location

SSH keys should be saved under the location `C:\Users\username\.ssh`. 

   ![sshkeyloc](/img/sshkeyloc.png)



### Configure SSH Keys

#### Public SSH Key

Now that you have created your `SSH keys`, and renamed them, you will need to placed the public key (`id_rsa.pub`) on the cluster using the `cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu`

1. Start the `Filezilla` application.

2. Fill in the `Quickconnect` fields at the top of the application window:

   * Enter your HPCC username in the `Username` field.
   * Enter the HPCC servername `cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu` for the `Host` field.
   * Enter your password in the `Password` field.
   * Enter `22` in the `Port` field.

   ![filezilla1](/img/filezilla1.png)

3. Click on `Quickconnect`

   ![filezilla2](/img/filezilla2.png)

4. If the next pop up prompts you, then check the box that states `Always trust this host, add this key to the cache`, then click the `OK` button.

   ![filezilla3](/img/filezilla3.png)

5. You will need to create a `.ssh` directory to hold your SSH keys. On the right hand side, right click and click on the `Create directory option` under your home folder location.
   ![createsshdir](/img/createsshdir.png)

6. A window will appear to name the new directory. Name should be the following format: `/rhome/username/.ssh`. After naming the new directory click on `OK`.
   ![createsshdir](/img/createsshdir2.png)

7. Right click on the new `.ssh` directory that has been created. Find and click on `File permissions`.
   ![createsshdir](/img/createsshdir3.png)

8. A window with the directory permissions will appear. The `.ssh` directory needs exact permissions in order for it to function properly. Follow the image below to apply the permissions.
   ![createsshdir](/img/createsshdir4.png)

9. Now that you are connected to Filezilla transfer your public SSH key from your system by dragging the file `id_rsa.pub` and dropping it into the HPCC cluster direcotry `/rhome/username/.ssh/`.

   ![filezilla4](/img/filezilla4.png)


#### Private SSH Key

Once your public key is in place, now you can configure `Filezilla` to use your private `SSH key` and connect to the cluster through the `secure.hpcc.ucr.edu` server.

1. Open Filezilla `Site Manager` button in the top bar of icons.

   ![filezilla5](/img/filezilla5.png)

2. Click on `New Site`, rename it (optional) and press enter.

   ![filezilla6](/img/filezilla6.png)

3. Make sure the following fields are correctly filled before adding your `SSH key` file:

   * `Protocol`: should be set to `SFTP - SSH File Transfer Protocol`
   * `Host`: type in `secure.hpcc.ucr.edu`
   * `Port`: type `22`
   * `Logon Type`: set to `Key file`
   * `User`: type in your HPCC username

   After these fields are finalized, click the `Browse..` button.

   ![filezilla7](/img/filezilla7.png)

4. Navigate to the folder you saved your private key file in and open the private key file `mobaxterm_privkey.ppk`. You should see the added keyfile in the `Key file:` box, then click `Connect`.

   ![filezilla9](/img/filezilla9.png)

5. Subsequnt connections can be done from the `Quickconnect` history by clicking on the down arrow to the right side of the `Quickconnect` button. Remember to select the `secure.hpcc.ucr.edu` address.

   ![filezilla11](/img/filezilla11.png)

6. Transfer files by double clicking or drag-n-drop. For more details regarding file transfers vist [Filezilla Usage](some_other_page).

Commit message:

Added step to rename ssh pub key

content/en/Manuals/hpc_cluster/sshkeys/sshkeys_winos.md, after:

---
type: docs
linkTitle:  SSH Keys Microsoft Windows
title: SSH Keys Microsoft Windows
permalink: manuals_linux-cluster_sshkeys_winos.html
aliases:
    - /manuals_linux-cluster_sshkeys_winos.html
    - /manuals_linux-cluster_sshkeys_winos
---

## SSH Keys on MS Windows

### What are SSH keys?

SSH (Secure Shell) keys are an access credential that is used in the SSH protocol.

The private key remains on the system being used to access the HPCC cluster and is used to decrypt information that is exchanged in the transfer between the HPCC cluster and your system.

A public key file is used to encrypt information, and is stored on your own system.
The public key file is stored on the HPCC cluster and contains a list of authorized public keys.

### Why do you need SSH keys?

HPCC supports two authentication methods; `Password+DUO` and `SSH Keys`.
The `Password+DUO` method requires a UCR NetID, if you do not have this then you will need to use `SSH keys` in order to access the HPCC cluster.

### What you need

#### Filezilla

You will need to install `Filezilla` in order to transfer the public SSH key to the HPCC cluster.

1. Download the `Filezilla Client` for Windows [here](https://filezilla-project.org/download.php?show_all=1).
        * Make sure your Windows system is updated to the latest version.
2. Follow the install wizard to complete the install of `Filezilla`.

#### MobaXterm

You will need to install `MobaXterm` in order to generate your `SSH keys` and also to transfer the keys to the cluster.

1. Download `MobaXterm` from [`here`](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/download-home-edition.html).
2. Unzip
3. Double click portable version of exe and run the `MobaXterm` application.

### Create SSH Keys (`MobaXterm`)

1. Begin by clicking on the tools drop down on the upper menu bar
   
   ![mobasshkey1](/img/ssh1moba.png)

2. Find and click on the MobaKeyGen (SSH key generator) option
   
   ![mobasshkey2](/img/ssh2moba.png)

3. A window should appear to create a new SSH key. Click on generate to create a new SSH key pair. Follow the on menu instructions.
   
   ![revisedkeygen](/img/revisedkeygen.png)

4. Once your key has been created, enter a password in the key passphrase field to password protect your key. Click on `conversions` in the tool bar and click on `Export OpenSSH Key`. Save this key as `id_rsa` and put the file in an easy to access location. 
Click on `Save private key` to save the private key with an extension of `.ppk` to use with MobaXterm or FileZilla. Save the key as `mobaxterm_privkey` and put the file in an easy to access location.
   
   ![revisedkeygen2](/img/revisedkeygen2.png)

5. Highlight EVERYTHING in the box labeled "Public key for pasting into OpenSSH authorized_keys file" then right-click on it and choose Copy. Open `Notepad` and paste the copied text. Save the file as `id_rsa.pub` and put the file in an easy to access location.
   
   ![revisedkeygen3](/img/revisedkeygen3.png)


### Keys Location

SSH keys should be saved under the location `C:\Users\username\.ssh`. 

   ![sshkeyloc](/img/sshkeyloc.png)



### Configure SSH Keys

#### Public SSH Key

Now that you have created your `SSH keys`, and renamed them, you will need to placed the public key (`id_rsa.pub`) on the cluster using the `cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu`

1. Start the `Filezilla` application.

2. Fill in the `Quickconnect` fields at the top of the application window:

   * Enter your HPCC username in the `Username` field.
   * Enter the HPCC servername `cluster.hpcc.ucr.edu` for the `Host` field.
   * Enter your password in the `Password` field.
   * Enter `22` in the `Port` field.

   ![filezilla1](/img/filezilla1.png)

3. Click on `Quickconnect`

   ![filezilla2](/img/filezilla2.png)

4. If the next pop up prompts you, then check the box that states `Always trust this host, add this key to the cache`, then click the `OK` button.

   ![filezilla3](/img/filezilla3.png)

5. You will need to create a `.ssh` directory to hold your SSH keys. On the right hand side, right click and click on the `Create directory option` under your home folder location.
   ![createsshdir](/img/createsshdir.png)

6. A window will appear to name the new directory. Name should be the following format: `/rhome/username/.ssh`. After naming the new directory click on `OK`.
   ![createsshdir](/img/createsshdir2.png)

7. Right click on the new `.ssh` directory that has been created. Find and click on `File permissions`.
   ![createsshdir](/img/createsshdir3.png)

8. A window with the directory permissions will appear. The `.ssh` directory needs exact permissions in order for it to function properly. Follow the image below to apply the permissions.
   ![createsshdir](/img/createsshdir4.png)

9. Now that you are connected to Filezilla transfer your public SSH key from your system by dragging the file `id_rsa.pub` and dropping it into the HPCC cluster direcotry `/rhome/username/.ssh/`.

   ![filezilla4](/img/filezilla4.png)

10. Once the file is transferred to the cluster, be sure to rename `id_rsa.pub` to `authorized_keys`.


#### Private SSH Key

Once your public key is in place, now you can configure `Filezilla` to use your private `SSH key` and connect to the cluster through the `secure.hpcc.ucr.edu` server.

1. Open Filezilla `Site Manager` button in the top bar of icons.

   ![filezilla5](/img/filezilla5.png)

2. Click on `New Site`, rename it (optional) and press enter.

   ![filezilla6](/img/filezilla6.png)

3. Make sure the following fields are correctly filled before adding your `SSH key` file:

   * `Protocol`: should be set to `SFTP - SSH File Transfer Protocol`
   * `Host`: type in `secure.hpcc.ucr.edu`
   * `Port`: type `22`
   * `Logon Type`: set to `Key file`
   * `User`: type in your HPCC username

   After these fields are finalized, click the `Browse..` button.

   ![filezilla7](/img/filezilla7.png)

4. Navigate to the folder you saved your private key file in and open the private key file `mobaxterm_privkey.ppk`. You should see the added keyfile in the `Key file:` box, then click `Connect`.

   ![filezilla9](/img/filezilla9.png)

5. Subsequnt connections can be done from the `Quickconnect` history by clicking on the down arrow to the right side of the `Quickconnect` button. Remember to select the `secure.hpcc.ucr.edu` address.

   ![filezilla11](/img/filezilla11.png)

6. Transfer files by double clicking or drag-n-drop. For more details regarding file transfers vist [Filezilla Usage](some_other_page).
